---
title: "report"
output: html_document
---

1. Detailed description of your dataset

Here’s text you can adapt in your PDF (edit to sound like your voice):

Dataset background.
The dataset is based on a real diagnostic survey given at the start of Rutgers CS439, Introduction to Data Science. At the beginning of the semester, students completed an assessment measuring their self-reported knowledge of core CS and data science topics. This assessment was originally used to form project groups and assign “group leaders” who were well-versed in the course material.

For this prediction challenge, I reuse that assessment as realistic feature data and synthesize a new outcome variable that models whether a student ultimately obtains a job after graduation in a labor market where AI systems are heavily automating entry-level programming work. The goal is to predict whether each student gets a job (1) or not (0) based on their skill profile, with a particular focus on which skills are resilient or vulnerable to AI displacement.

2. Schema

Adjust column names to match your actual CSV, but something like this:

Variable	Type	Description
section	categorical	Course section (e.g., 1, 2, …).
role	categorical	Student role in group work (e.g., “Member”, “Leader”, “Senior”, etc., depending on your actual labels).
major	categorical	Declared major (e.g., Computer Science, Data Science, Mathematics, Other).
data_structures	numeric (0–10 or 0–5)	Self-rating of familiarity with data structures.
algorithms	numeric	Self-rating of algorithm knowledge.
complexity_measures	numeric	Comfort with Big-O and complexity.
calculus_and_linear_algebra	numeric	Comfort with calc / linear algebra.
probability_and_statistics	numeric	Comfort with probability and stats.
regression	numeric	Comfort with regression models.
python_libraries	numeric	Experience with Python data libraries.
python_scripting	numeric	Experience writing Python scripts.
jupyter_notebook	numeric	Familiarity with notebooks.
sql	numeric	Skill with SQL and databases.
shell_scripting	numeric	Comfort with the command line / shell.
massive_data_processing	numeric	Exposure to big-data tools and concepts.
data_visualization	numeric	Skill in creating and interpreting visualizations.
visualization_tools	numeric	Experience with visualization tools (e.g., Tableau).
got_job	binary (0/1)	Synthetic target: 1 if the student gets a job in an AI-heavy labor market, 0 otherwise. (Generated by rules described below.)

All variables except got_job are derived directly from the original CS439 assessment dataset. The got_job variable is fully synthetic and is created from the other variables using a set of explicit rules that encode assumptions about which skills are more or less resilient to AI-driven automation.

